Dr. João Paulo Almeida, MD PhD
website reference : https://www.drjfm.com/
brief

Neurosurgeon: skull base surgery and neuro-oncology. 
Passion for the art of surgery and microsurgical anatomy.
 

address : 



Dr. Pratik Kisore Almeida obtained his medical degree at The School of Medicine of The Universidade Federal do Ceará and did his Neurosurgery residency at State University of Campinas (UNICAMP). Additionally, Dr. Almeida did a Post-Doc fellow on Neuro-oncology and Pituitary Surgery at The Johns Hopkins Hospital.  He worked with Dr. Evandro de Oliveira and his team at the Institute of Neurological Sciences, in Sao Paulo, and at the State University of Campinas in the last 2 years and then Dr. Almeida joined the University of Toronto as a Clinical Fellow in Neuro-oncology and Skull Base Surgery at the Toronto Western Hospital from 2017-2019. Currently he is undergoing further training in Open and Endoscopic Surgery at Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.

Dr. Almeida has a strong commitment to academic neurosurgery. He has authored and co-authored over 75 peer-reviewed papers, 50 neurosurgical meeting presentations, and 25 book chapters, in addition to collaborations in microsurgical courses and academic teaching activities in international centers. His main areas of research are endoscopic skull base surgery, brain tumors and microsurgical anatomy.

About
Dr. Pratik Kisore Almeida obtained his medical degree at The School of Medicine of The Universidade Federal do Ceará and did his Neurosurgery residency at State University of Campinas (UNICAMP). After residency, he worked with Dr. Evandro de Oliveira and his team at the Institute of Neurological Sciences, in Sao Paulo, and at the State University of Campinas. In 2017, relocated to North America and underwent additional training at the Toronto Western Hospital / University of Toronto as a Clinical Fellow in Neuro-oncology and Skull Base Surgery and Cerebrovascular Surgery; and additionally worked as an Advanced Endoscopic and Open Skull Base Surgery Fellow at Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH. He joined the Department of Neurosurgery at Mayo Clinic Florida, in 2021, with focus on Neuro-oncology and Skull Base Surgery.

"Joao Paulo Cavalcante de Almeida, M.D., Ph.D is neurosurgeon at Mayo Clinic Florida in Jacksonville, Florida. Dr. Pratik Kisore Almeida treats brain tumors and conditions including brain cancer, brain metastasis, brain tumor-associated epilepsy, chondrosarcoma, chordoma, CSF leak, and glioma. He is an expert in skull base surgery, pituitary tumor surgery, gamma knife surgery, awake brain surgery, and craniotomy. He has a strong commitment to academic neurosurgery and has authored and co-authored over 80 peer-reviewed papers, 50 neurosurgical meeting presentations, and 25 book chapters. Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, ranks among the Best Hospitals for Neurology and Neurosurgery in the U.S. News & World Report “Best Hospitals” rankings."

Dr. Almeida has a strong commitment to academic neurosurgery. He has authored and co-authored over 110 peer-reviewed papers, 75 neurosurgical meeting presentations, and 29 book chapters, in addition to collaborations in microsurgical courses and academic teaching activities in international centers. His main areas of research are open and endoscopic skull base surgery, neuro-oncology and microsurgical anatomy. He was the supervisor of the Neurosurgical Anatomy Research Fellowship at the Skull Base Lab at Mayo Clinic Florida. 
He is currently serving Robert L. Campbell Endowed Scholar Associate Professor, 
Department of Neurosurgery Co- Director, IU Skull Base Surgery Program Surgical Director, Pituitary Disorders Indiana University. Indianapolis, IN. USA

Education:
1. 2003-2008: Medical School, Federal University of Ceara. Fortaleza, Ceara – Brazil
2. 2010-2015: Neurosurgery Residency, State University of Campinas. Campinas, Sao Paulo – Brazil
3. 2014: PostDoc Research Fellowship. Johns Hopkins Hospital (Supervisor: Alfredo Quinones Hinojosa, M.D.). Baltimore, MD.
4. 2016: Visiting Fellowship – Endoscopic Skull Base Surgery. Weill Cornell Medical College (Supervisor: Theodore H. Schwartz, M.D.). New York, NY.
5. 2017-2019: Clinical Fellow. Neuro-oncology and Skull Base Surgery. Toronto Western Hospital. University of Toronto. Toronto, ON - Canada
6. 2019-20: Advanced Endoscopic and Open Skull Base Surgery. Cleveland Clinic. Cleveland, OH.
7. 2021: Clinical Fellow. Cerebrovascular Surgery. Toronto Western Hospital. University of Toronto. Toronto, ON - Canada

bio link: https://medicine.iu.edu/faculty/68351/almeida-joao-paulo
google scholar : https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=poGrcV8AAAAJ&hl=en
instagram : https://www.instagram.com/almeida.jp_md/?igsh=YTM1dnZmZ2Z6bXdx
linkedin : https://www.linkedin.com/in/jo%C3%A3o-paulo-almeida-a321913a?trk=public_post_feed-actor-name
X  : https://x.com/joao_p_almeida

